The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
Female felines are \superfecund
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Cats walk on their toes.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
